**[FLO - Distributed Hierarchical Dataflow](https://github.com/kk-0129/Flo)**

Swift package: **[FloBox](../README.md)**

# Low-Level Logging, Serialisation, Threads and Timing

The following subsections briefly describe low-level utilities for logging, data serialisation,
threads, clocks and timing - all of which are used extensively throughout the Flo application stack.

## 1. Logging

Logging functions throughout the Flo stack are implemented with the Logger protocol, which just comprises 4 methods for printing errors, warnings, debugging or generic information. A default implementation of this protocol, which simply prints all messages to the standard console output, is provided as a global variable `__log__ : Logger` (in [Util.swift](../Sources/FloBox/Util.swift)). Developers can replace the default with their own custom implementations.

## 2. Data Serialisation

Data serialisation throughout the Flo stack relies on the `IO` protocol (in [IO.swift](../Sources/FloBox/IO.swift)), which just defines methods to write and read bytes to/from a byte sequence (`[UInt8]`). Serialisable structs and classes then implement the associated `IO™` protocol (also in [IO.swift](../Sources/FloBox/IO.swift)) to serialise themselves to/from an IO byte stream. Note that the `static` deserialisation method does not throw any errors, with the supplied `IO` argument assumed to be always contain well-formed data. This may change in future versions.

## 3. Threads

The `__thread__` class (in [Util.swift](../Sources/FloBox/Util.swift)), is a convenience wrapper for a low-level POSIX 3 thread. Swift Foundation GCD threading classes are also used throughout the application stack, the `__thread__` class oﬀers more scheduling predictability and is used for time-critical operations.

## 4. Clock

The `__clock__` class (in [Util.swift](../Sources/FloBox/Util.swift)), is similar to a `__thread__` (above), except that it executes its @escaping closure, c, at regular periodic intervals. Clocks can be started, paused and resumed as needed (by toggling the `running` variable).

## 5. Times

The `Time` enum (in [Util.swift](../Sources/FloBox/Util.swift)) provides access to the current time in diﬀerent forms (seconds, nano-seconds or a timespec combination). It also defines the type-aliases `Interval` (for an interval of time) and `Stamp` (for an instant in time) just to provide some semantic clarity throughout the code.




